README.md, before:

# SudachiPy

SudachiPy is a Python version of [Sudachi](https://github.com/WorksApplications/Sudachi), a Japanese morphological analyzer.

Sudachi & SudachiPy are developed in [WAP Tokushima Laboratory of AI and NLP](http://nlp.worksap.co.jp/), an institute under [Works Applications](http://www.worksap.com/) that focuses on Natural Language Processing (NLP).

**Warning: SudachiPy is still under development, and some of the functions are still not complete. Please use it at your own risk.**


## Setup

SudachiPy requires Python3.5+.

SudachiPy is not registered to PyPI just yet, so you may not install it via `pip` command at the moment.

```
$ pip install -e git+git://github.com/WorksApplications/SudachiPy@develop#egg=SudachiPy
```
The dictionary file is not included in the repository. You can get the built dictionary from [Releases · WorksApplications/Sudachi](https://github.com/WorksApplications/Sudachi/releases). Please download either `sudachi-x.y.z-dictionary-core.zip` or `sudachi-x.y.z-dictionary-full.zip`, unzip and rename it to `system.dic`, then place it under `SudachiPy/resources/`. In the end, we would like to make a flow to get these resources via the code, like [NLTK](https://www.nltk.org/data.html) (e.g., `import nltk; nltk.download()`) or [spaCy](https://spacy.io/usage/models) (e.g., `$python -m spacy download en`).

## Usage

### As a command

After installing SudachiPy, you may also use it in the terminal via command `sudachipy`.

```
$ sudachipy -h
usage: sudachipy [-h] [-r file] [-m {A,B,C}] [-o file] [-a] [-d] [-v] ...

Japanese Morphological Analyzer

positional arguments:
  input file(s)

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -r file        the setting file in JSON format
  -m {A,B,C}     the mode of splitting
  -o file        the output file
  -a             print all of the fields
  -d             print the debug information
  -v, --version  show program's version number and exit

```

### As a Python package

Here is an example usage;

```python
import json

from sudachipy import tokenizer
from sudachipy import dictionary
from sudachipy import config

with open(config.SETTINGFILE, "r", encoding="utf-8") as f:
    settings = json.load(f)
tokenizer_obj = dictionary.Dictionary(settings).create()


# Multi-granular tokenization
# (following results are w/ `system_full.dic`
# you may not be able to replicate this particular example w/ `system_core.dic`)


mode = tokenizer.Tokenizer.SplitMode.C
[m.surface() for m in tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "医薬品安全管理責任者")]
# => ['医薬品', '安全', '管理責任者']

mode = tokenizer.Tokenizer.SplitMode.B
[m.surface() for m in tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "医薬品安全管理責任者")]
# => ['医薬品', '安全', '管理', '責任者']

mode = tokenizer.Tokenizer.SplitMode.A
[m.surface() for m in tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "医薬品安全管理責任者")]
# => ['医薬', '品', '安全', '管理', '責任', '者']


# Morpheme information

m = tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "食べ")[0]

m.surface() # => '食べ'
m.dictionary_form() # => '食べる'
m.reading_form() # => 'タベ'
m.part_of_speech() # => ['動詞', '一般', '*', '*', '下一段-バ行', '連用形-一般']


# Normalization

tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "附属")[0].normalized_form()
# => '付属'
tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "SUMMER")[0].normalized_form()
# => 'サマー'
tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "シュミレーション")[0].normalized_form()
# => 'シミュレーション'
```

## For developer

### Code format

You have to run `./scripts/format.sh` and check if your code is in rule before PR.
This code formatting script will be integrated to CI system later. `flake8` is required.

Commit message:

Add tests 2nd (#29)
* add: test_dictionaryheader.py

* add dictionaryversion.py

* modify README.md

* add test data

README.md, after:

# SudachiPy

SudachiPy is a Python version of [Sudachi](https://github.com/WorksApplications/Sudachi), a Japanese morphological analyzer.

Sudachi & SudachiPy are developed in [WAP Tokushima Laboratory of AI and NLP](http://nlp.worksap.co.jp/), an institute under [Works Applications](http://www.worksap.com/) that focuses on Natural Language Processing (NLP).

**Warning: SudachiPy is still under development, and some of the functions are still not complete. Please use it at your own risk.**


## Setup

SudachiPy requires Python3.5+.

SudachiPy is not registered to PyPI just yet, so you may not install it via `pip` command at the moment.

```
$ pip install -e git+git://github.com/WorksApplications/SudachiPy@develop#egg=SudachiPy
```
The dictionary file is not included in the repository. You can get the built dictionary from [Releases · WorksApplications/Sudachi](https://github.com/WorksApplications/Sudachi/releases). Please download either `sudachi-x.y.z-dictionary-core.zip` or `sudachi-x.y.z-dictionary-full.zip`, unzip and rename it to `system.dic`, then place it under `SudachiPy/resources/`. In the end, we would like to make a flow to get these resources via the code, like [NLTK](https://www.nltk.org/data.html) (e.g., `import nltk; nltk.download()`) or [spaCy](https://spacy.io/usage/models) (e.g., `$python -m spacy download en`).

## Usage

### As a command

After installing SudachiPy, you may also use it in the terminal via command `sudachipy`.

```
$ sudachipy -h
usage: sudachipy [-h] [-r file] [-m {A,B,C}] [-o file] [-a] [-d] [-v] ...

Japanese Morphological Analyzer

positional arguments:
  input file(s)

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -r file        the setting file in JSON format
  -m {A,B,C}     the mode of splitting
  -o file        the output file
  -a             print all of the fields
  -d             print the debug information
  -v, --version  show program's version number and exit

```

### As a Python package

Here is an example usage;

```python
import json

from sudachipy import tokenizer
from sudachipy import dictionary
from sudachipy import config

with open(config.SETTINGFILE, "r", encoding="utf-8") as f:
    settings = json.load(f)
tokenizer_obj = dictionary.Dictionary(settings).create()


# Multi-granular tokenization
# (following results are w/ `system_full.dic`
# you may not be able to replicate this particular example w/ `system_core.dic`)


mode = tokenizer.Tokenizer.SplitMode.C
[m.surface() for m in tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "医薬品安全管理責任者")]
# => ['医薬品安全管理責任者']

mode = tokenizer.Tokenizer.SplitMode.B
[m.surface() for m in tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "医薬品安全管理責任者")]
# => ['医薬品', '安全', '管理', '責任者']

mode = tokenizer.Tokenizer.SplitMode.A
[m.surface() for m in tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "医薬品安全管理責任者")]
# => ['医薬', '品', '安全', '管理', '責任', '者']


# Morpheme information

m = tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "食べ")[0]

m.surface() # => '食べ'
m.dictionary_form() # => '食べる'
m.reading_form() # => 'タベ'
m.part_of_speech() # => ['動詞', '一般', '*', '*', '下一段-バ行', '連用形-一般']


# Normalization

tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "附属")[0].normalized_form()
# => '付属'
tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "SUMMER")[0].normalized_form()
# => 'サマー'
tokenizer_obj.tokenize(mode, "シュミレーション")[0].normalized_form()
# => 'シミュレーション'
```

## For developer

### Code format

You have to run `./scripts/format.sh` and check if your code is in rule before PR.
This code formatting script will be integrated to CI system later. `flake8` is required.

### Test

You have to run `./script/test.sh` and check if not your change cause regression.
This test script will be integrated to CI system later. Current test assumes `sudachi-dictionary-20190531-core.dic`
is in `resources` directory as `system.dic`. We will change it to special dictionary for test like Sudachi (Java) in all tests.  
Some of the tests use `system.dic` built by Sudachi.  This is an example command to get `system.dic` for test
```bash
git clone https://github.com/WorksApplications/Sudachi.git
cd Sudahi
mvn test
cp target/test-classes/system.dic ${SudachiPy}/tests/resources/
```
